.TH mkdata 1
.SH NAME
mkdata \- Generate multivariate linear artificial data
.SH SYNOPSIS
mkdata -h
.br
mkdata --help
.br
mkdata [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIREQUIRED\fR]... 
.SH DESCRIPTION

Required

\fB-d\fR \fINFEATURES\fR, \fB--nfeatures\fR \fINFEATURES\fR
.in +0.5i
Number of features, i.e. the dimensionality of the data set. Its corresponding value
\fINFEATURES\fR should be a positive integer.
.in

\fB-n\fR \fINSAMPLES\fR, \fB--nsamples\fR \fINSAMPLES\fR
.in +0.5i
Number of samples, i.e. the number of points in d-dimensional space that the generated
data set will contain, d being the number of features.  Its corresponding value \fINSAMPLES\fR
should be a positive integer.
.in

\fB-w\fR \fITRUE_WEIGHTS\fR, \fB--true_weights\fR \fITRUE_WEIGHTS\fR
.in +0.5i
True weights. The true coefficients of the multivariate linear equation that is used to generate
the artificial data set. Its corresponding value \fITRUE_WEIGHTS\fR should be a comma-separated,
double-quoted string, containing 1 + \fINFEATURES\fR floating point numbers, the first weight
representing the intercept.
.in

Options

\fB-b\fR \fIBASENAME\fR, \fB--basename\fR \fIBASENAME\fR
.in +0.5i
Basename of the output files. Any directory names in \fIBASENAME\fR should exist before running
the command. If this option is omitted, \fIBASENAME\fR is set to the string \[dq]artificial-data.\[dq].
.in

\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
.in +0.5i
Show the help.
.in

\fB-l\fR \fILOWER_BOUNDS\fR, \fB--lower_bounds\fR \fILOWER_BOUNDS\fR
.in +0.5i
Lower bounds of the range of each feature. Its corresponding value
\fILOWER_BOUNDS\fR should be a comma-separated, double-quoted string, containing \fINFEATURES\fR
floating point numbers. If this option is omitted, each element of \fILOWER_BOUNDS\fR is set to 0.0f.
.in

\fB-s\fR \fISIGMA\fR, \fB--sigma\fR \fISIGMA\fR
.in +0.5i
Standard deviation of the residuals. Its corresponding value \fISIGMA\fR should be a floating point
number. If this option is omitted, \fISIGMA\fR is set to 1.0f.
.in

\fB-u\fR \fIUPPER_BOUNDS\fR, \fB--upper_bounds\fR \fIUPPER_BOUNDS\fR
.in +0.5i
Upper bounds of the range of each feature. Its corresponding value
\fIUPPER_BOUNDS\fR should be a comma-separated, double-quoted string, containing \fINFEATURES\fR
floating point numbers. If this option is omitted, each element of \fIUPPER_BOUNDS\fR is set to 1.0f.
.in

\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR
.in +0.5i
Verbose output.
.in

.SH EXAMPLES

Generate 7 samples in a 3-dimensional space, using the default bounds, standard deviation, and basename:

.in +0.5i
$ mkdata --nfeatures 3 --nsamples 7 --true_weights \[dq]8.7,2.34,23.0,150\[dq]
.in

Generate 25 samples in a 2-dimensional space, using custom bounds, standard deviation, and basename:

.in +0.5i
$ mkdir data && mkdata --nfeatures 2 \\
.br
                       --nsamples 25 \\
.br
                       --true_weights \[dq]246.5,78.35,68.0\[dq] \\
.br
                       --lower_bounds \[dq]-10.0,1000\[dq] \\
.br
                       --upper_bounds \[dq]10.0,3000\[dq] \\
.br
                       --sigma 12.1 \\
.br
                       --basename \[dq]data/\[dq]
.in
