README.md, before:

# ann

For instructions on building, formatting, testing, etc, see [`README.dev.md`](README.dev.md).

## Executables

- `linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial`: 2-D linear regression of artificially generated data using batch gradient descent with sum of squared residuals as loss function.

## Libraries

- `matrix`: Matrix data type and operations on instances of that type
- `boxmuller`: normally distributed random number generation

## Data

See [data/README.md](data/README.md).

## Results

```console
$ ./dist/bin/linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial
true_weights (1x3):
      98.7,       65.4,       32.1
weights (1x3):
   98.6485,    65.3076,    32.0784
# true_sigma = 10
```

![linear regression result](images/linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial-100000.png)

```console
$ ./dist/bin/linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial
true_weights (1x3):
      98.7,       65.4,       32.1
weights (1x3):
   98.3823,    63.9584,     28.372
# true_sigma = 10
```

![linear regression result](images/linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial-100.png)

## Notes

1. softmax implementations use `log10`, not `ln`, following examples from
   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h7iBpEHGVNc&t=2698s. Not sure it matters
   since both are monotonic. PyTorch seems to be using `ln` however.

## Acknowledgements

_This project was initialized using [Copier](https://pypi.org/project/copier)
and the [Copier template for C projects](https://github.com/jspaaks/copier-template-for-c-projects)._

Commit message:

added mkdata, an executable that can generate artificial linear data sets using hardcoded parameters, noise level, dimensionalityand write it to file

README.md, after:

# ann

For instructions on building, formatting, testing, etc, see [`README.dev.md`](README.dev.md).

## Executables

- `mkdata`: makes an n-dimensional linear data set with normally distributed noise of a given standard deviation
- `linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial`: 2-D linear regression of artificially generated data using batch gradient descent with sum of squared residuals as loss function.

## Libraries

- `matrix`: Matrix data type and operations on instances of that type
- `boxmuller`: normally distributed random number generation

## Data

See [data/README.md](data/README.md).

## Results

```console
$ ./dist/bin/linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial
true_weights (1x3):
      98.7,       65.4,       32.1
weights (1x3):
   98.6485,    65.3076,    32.0784
# true_sigma = 10
```

![linear regression result](images/linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial-100000.png)

```console
$ ./dist/bin/linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial
true_weights (1x3):
      98.7,       65.4,       32.1
weights (1x3):
   98.3823,    63.9584,     28.372
# true_sigma = 10
```

![linear regression result](images/linear-regression-ssr-bgd-artificial-100.png)

## Notes

1. softmax implementations use `log10`, not `ln`, following examples from
   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h7iBpEHGVNc&t=2698s. Not sure it matters
   since both are monotonic. PyTorch seems to be using `ln` however.

## Acknowledgements

_This project was initialized using [Copier](https://pypi.org/project/copier)
and the [Copier template for C projects](https://github.com/jspaaks/copier-template-for-c-projects)._
