.TH train 1
.SH NAME
train \- Use batch gradient descent to train a multivariate linear model

.SH SYNOPSIS
train -h
.br
train --help
.br
train [\fIOPTIONAL\fR]... FEATURES_PATH LABELS_PATH
.SH DESCRIPTION

Use batch gradient descent to train a multivariate linear model.

Optionals

\fB-d\fR \fIDEVICE\fR, \fB--device\fR \fIDEVICE\fR
.in +0.5i
The output device used for plotting. Use \[dq]?\[dq] for interactively selecting a device,
\[dq]null\[dq] for no output. Defaults to interactive device selection, including overview of
available device names.
.in

\fB-e\fR \fINEPOCHS\fR, \fB--nepochs\fR \fINEPOCHS\fR
.in +0.5i
Number of epochs. An epoch is equivalent to one pass through the entire data set.
.in

\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
.in +0.5i
Show the help.
.in

\fB-r\fR \fILEARNING_RATE\fR, \fB--learning_rate\fR \fILEARNING_RATE\fR
.in +0.5i
The learning rate of the steepest descent analysis. Simply a scaling factor that is applied to the
calculated gradient of the loss with respect to the weights.
.in

\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR
.in +0.5i
Verbose output.
.in

\fB-w\fR \fIINITIAL_WEIGHTS\fR, \fB--initial_weights\fR \fIINITIAL_WEIGHTS\fR
.in +0.5i
The point in the parameter space from where to start the iterative procedure of updating the
weights.
.in

\fB-z\fR, \fB--standardize\fR
.in +0.5i
Whether to standardize the features and labels values before training.
.in
Positionals

\fBFEATURES_PATH\fR
.in +0.5i
The path to the file containing the features used for training. Paths can be relative or absolute.
The file format should be that outputted by sibling program \fBmkdata\fR(1).
.in

\fBLABELS_PATH\fR
.in +0.5i
The path to the file containing the labels used for training. Paths can be relative or absolute.
The file format should be that outputted by sibling program \fBmkdata\fR(1).
.in

.SH EXAMPLES

Train a linear model based on the features from \[dq]features.txt\[dq] and the labels from
\[dq]labels.txt\[dq] using default options:

.in +0.5i
$ ./train features.txt labels.txt
.in

Train a linear model based on the features from \[dq]data/features.txt\[dq] and the labels from
\[dq]data/labels.txt\[dq] using 100 epochs, a learning rate of 0.001, and initialize the weights at
(10.2, 34.7, 0.1); afterwards, use the interactive \[dq]qtwidget\[dq] device to make a plot of the
loss as a function of epoch:

.in +0.5i
$ ./train --device qtwidget \\
.br
          --nepochs 100 \\
.br
          --learning_rate 0.001 \\
.br
          --initial_weights 10.2,34.7,0.1 \\
.br
          data/features.txt data/labels.txt
.in
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmkdata\fR(1)
